

The purpose of this tool (csv_tool) is to allow a user to manipulate CSV (comma separated) data via command line/terminal by performing various operations (add,subtract,multiply,divide) on specified columns of the loaded CSV data.  Alternatively, a user can join two different datasets to do either an inner or outer join via a shared key.

1) Installation

Unpack the project archive csv_tool.tar.gz with the command: tar xzvf csv_tool.tar.gz
Then 'cd' into the project directory 'csv_tool', where there should be five files:

    Makefile
    README
    main.cpp
    stocks.csv
    stocks2.csv
    utils.h

Now, type 'make' to build the project.  If the project does not compile, it may be necessary to modify the Makefile to use a compiler that is supported on the user's machine.  I have sucessfully compiled this code on MacOS X using llvm-g++.

2) Program Usage

To perform the aforementioned operations on differnet columns, type the following:

./csv_tool --csv=FILENAME.csv --cols=col1,col2 --operator=plus --rows=10

- Possible values for the cols argument include: col0,...coln where n is the number of columns in the CSV file minus 1.
    Operations can only be done on numeric column values.  Possible opportunity for enhancement might be to check for non-numeric values

- Possible values for the operator argument include: add, sum, subtract, minus, times, multiply, product, divide

- The number of rows to perform operations on is set by --rows where a value of 10 tells the program to perform the specified operation on only the first 10 rows.

Alternatively, to join two datasets together, the following command line arguments are possible:

./csv_tool --tables=FILENAME.csv,FILENAME2.csv --join=inner --on=col0,col0

- Possible values for the --join argument are 'inner' or 'outer'. Note: 'outer' joins are full outer joins.

- The --on argument allows the user to specify which columns to use when matching indices or keys while joining the two tables.  Supported values must include unique numeric keys (e.g., '2010-10-01' would get converted to 20101001).  A possible enhancement might include supporting keys that are unique strings or date objects.

In either case, whether joining datasets or performing column operations, statistics are shown after displaying the result of the manipulation.

When reading in the CSV file, the tool will skip the first row if it contains solely alpha characters.  The assumption being that it's a header line and currently isn't supported.


_____

For any further questions, please contact Michael O'Meara at michael.omeara@gmail.com.




